## About the Plandomizer

This plandomizer allows you to specify item locations for The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker.  
Items specified in the plandomizer are placed first, then the randomizer runs as normal on any remaining items and locations. There are ABSOLUTELY NO SAFEGUARDS to protect against locking yourself out of items that have been placed with the plando. That is, the randomizer assumes you can get to all items and locations specified by the plando, so if you place item A in a place locked by item B and you don't place item B, there is a pretty good chance you're going to have an unbeatable game.

To specify a location/item pair for the plando, copy the FULL location name out of `item_locations.txt` and the exact item name out of `item_types.py` (located in wwrando/logic), separated by a colon, so that each line looks like this:

`Outset Island - Mesa the Grasscutter's House: Progressive Sword`

Any invalid location or item names (including misspellings) will result in an error from the randomizer.

Optionally, you may include the location `Permalink: <permalink>` as the first line of your plando file. The permalink must be generated with the plandomizer, not the randomizer, and must be generated by the same version of the plandomizer. This permalink loading feature is included with the plandomizer to make it easier to share your plando with others, as you can simply send along the plando list and the plandomizer will do the rest.

Download the plandomizer here: https://github.com/andirigible/wwplando/releases/latest

## About the Randomizer

This is a randomizer for The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker.  
It randomizes all the items in the game so that each playthrough is unique and you never know where a particular item will be.  
It also makes the game completely open world from the start, removes most cutscenes from the game, and increases sailing speed and text speed.

Download it here: https://github.com/LagoLunatic/wwrando/releases/latest

### Information

The plandomizer only supports the North American Gamecube version of Wind Waker. (MD5: d8e4d45af2032a081a0f446384e9261b)  
The European and Japanese versions of Wind Waker won't work, and neither will Wind Waker HD.

If you seem to be stuck and can't find anywhere to progress, you should first double check your plando list. You can check access requirements against those listed in `item_locations.txt`. If you think you SHOULD be able to progress, check your spoiler log.

If you've consulted the plando list and the spoiler log and you're still stuck, it's possible you've encountered a bug in the plandomizer.  
Please report bugs like that here: https://github.com/andirigible/wwplando/issues  
In the bug report be sure to include the permalink for the seed you encountered the bug on, as well as your plando list.  

If you're going to play on emulator, you should always use the latest development version of Dolphin which can be found at the top of this page: https://dolphin-emu.org/download/  
If you try to run the randomizer on an old version of Dolphin you will most likely get a black screen when booting it up.

### Credits

The plandomizer changes were created by AndiRigible.  

The randomizer was created and programmed by LagoLunatic, with help from:  
MelonSpeedruns (game design, graphic design)  
Hypatia (textures)  
SageOfMirrors (file format documentation)  
LordNed (file format documentation)  
CryZe (event flag documentation)  

### Running the plandomizer on Mac and Linux

There are currently no official Mac or Linux builds of the randomizer or plandomizer, but you should be able to run the Windows builds with Wine.

For Mac:   
`brew cask install xquartz`  
`brew install wine`  
`sudo wine "Wind Waker Plandomizer.exe"`  

For Linux:  
`sudo apt install wine64` or `sudo apt install wine32`  
`wine Wind\ Waker\ Plandomizer.exe`  

### Running the plandomizer from source

If you want to run the latest development/beta version of the plandomizer from source, follow these instructions:  
* Clone this repository in git by running this in a command prompt: `git clone https://github.com/LagoLunatic/wwrando.git`  
* Download and install Python 3.6.6 32-bit from here: https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-366/ ("Windows x86 executable installer" is the one you want if you're on Windows)  
* Open the wwrando folder in a command prompt and install dependencies by running: `pip install -r requirements.txt`  
* Then run the randomizer with: `python wwrando.py`  

In addition, follow this if you want to use PyInstaller to build a distributable version of the randomizer:  
* Install one of PyInstaller's dependencies manually: `pip install pywin32-ctypes==0.2.0`  
* Install PyInstaller: `pip install PyInstaller==3.4`  
* Then to make a build in the `dist` directory: `build.bat`  
